---
layout: blog-post
title: Saturday
status: draft
tags:
---

Yesterday and last night, I mostly worked on website features, including making the BrowserFS file system "InMemory" for added security (easy!), adding a cookie notification script (easy!) and setting up the blog categories, folders, index pages, formatting, etc.  I also did some reading on Pay What You Want (PWYW) pricing systems, esp. the Fair Pay What You Want (FairPay) approach, which looks especially interesting for my purposes.

Today, I'll start generating blog entries (like this one), and work on the "Team Negotiation" model, especially task planning and execution as an affordance.

____

I ended up searching for and reading a bunch of articles and book chapters at the intersection of organizations, semiotics (Peircian), and affordances.  Thankfully, I found a bunch, including:

<p class='hangingindent'>cite:binnekamp_open_2006</p>
<p class='hangingindent'>cite:bouissac_bounded_2003</p>
<p class='hangingindent'>cite:bouissac_criteria_2003</p>
<p class='hangingindent'>cite:buckland_information_1991</p>
<p class='hangingindent'>cite:donnellon_communication_1986-1</p>
<p class='hangingindent'>cite:gazendam_models_2003</p>
<p class='hangingindent'>cite:goldberg_constructions:_2003</p>
<p class='hangingindent'>cite:gudwin_semionics:_2004</p>
<p class='hangingindent'>cite:helmhout_social_2004</p>
<p class='hangingindent'>cite:helmhout_social_2006</p>
<p class='hangingindent'>cite:heusden_reconsidering_2002</p>
<p class='hangingindent'>cite:liu_information_2001</p>
<p class='hangingindent'>cite:marengo_division_2005</p>
<p class='hangingindent'>cite:norman_cognitive_1986</p>
<p class='hangingindent'>cite:perlovsky_abstract_2011</p>
<p class='hangingindent'>cite:pike_supporting_2007</p>
<p class='hangingindent'>cite:souza_semiotic_2005</p>
<p class='hangingindent'>cite:steels_emergent_2002</p>
<p class='hangingindent'>cite:steels_grounding_2002</p>
<p class='hangingindent'>cite:steels_modeling_2011</p>
<p class='hangingindent'>cite:steels_modeling_2011-1</p>
<p class='hangingindent'>cite:steels_origins_1998</p>

I also reread some of Holland's *Signals and Boundaries* (2012) chapters 10 and 11.

I also spent a lot of time in the evening writing and testing a regular expression induction program in *WebPPL*.  It sort of worked, but there are problems in the grammar because it too easily leads to productions that don't stop.  This is due to uncertainty in probability of recursion in some of the production rules. Basically, probability of any recursion can't approach 1.0, otherwise infinite loop!  I'm not sure how to solve this, however. I am inclined to use a very different approach that does not involve generating full regular expressions and then conditioning on their length and pattern match true/false.