---
layout: blog-post
title: Tuesday 11/22/16
status: draft
tags:
---

I spent time writing and rewriting titles and abstracts for the *Journal of Strategy Science* special issue: "[Strategy and the Institutional Environment](http://pubsonline.informs.org/page/stsc/inst_environment)".  I'm going back and forth about the title and focus.  I am looking up web pages with advice on how to write a good article title (including implications on citations).  

When I did the white-board sketch yesterday, I was considering this title:

> **"Modeling the Functional Ecology of Organizations and Institutions"**

This would lead me toward presenting an ontology and theory of Functional Ecology.  I need to do this for my dissertation, so there is some appeal to packaging it as a journal article.

Another title I am considering is my dissertation title:

> **"Shaping Possibility Space: Coevolution of Thinking and Doing in Institutional Innovation"**

(Of course, I might tweak the subtitle.) This title would lead me toward focusing on *institutional change agents* (a.k.a. "institutional entrepreneurs" and "institutional workers") combining the cognitive/behavioral and functional ecology aspects.  I like this because it more easily aligns with the CFP focus on firm strategy and strategic implications rather than public policy or political economy.

A third possibility is to combine them, but leave out "Functional Ecology":

> **"Shaping Possibility Space: How Change Agents Promote Innovation in Institutional-Organizational Ecosystems"**

A fourth possibility is brevity:

> **"Shaping Possibility Space"**

This puts all the burden for explanation on the abstract and introduction.  Maybe not enough information in the title.

Yet another possibility:

> **"Functional Ecology: A Micro-foundational Theory of Institutional Innovation"**

____

I think I will go with #3 for now.  It seems to have the most meaning and accessibility, and also is most appropriate for the Journal and special issue theme.






    

